Participate and be with us again during the retreat. We are doing really beautiful, meaningful life
we are doing.
According to the situation, the circumstance, you know that we are turning the situation into
Dharma.
It is transformation. We are using this situation to improve our understanding and realization of
our own beautiful forces.
Of true nature, with love, compassion, joy and dedication, it is wonderful. It is really beautiful.
According to the teaching, we are making the meaning of a very beautiful life, beautiful our lives.
We are not taking any kind of when it is ego tricks or anything. It truly is divine knowledge of
the Great Teacher Buddha Shaptar Muni Murabhema Sambhava.
All that is great mass at home. Even though it is the kind of difficult and turbulent challenges,
but we are doing really good. We should be happy and joyful with this. It is wonderful.
And therefore, again, we ignite it, reactivate our beautiful motivations, joy, joy and appreciation
.
And the vastness and motivation of the Bodhic Jeddah, taking over all living things, particularly
all this time.
So many people are going to trouble us and challenge us. And then besides this, always going on in
samsara, you know, we know, all of us know.
So really thinking of everyone kind of doing this is really wonderful and beautiful.
When we have this joy and appreciation, Bodhic Jeddah and three regular realizations, that is the
beginning of enlightenment.
Believe it or not, it is enlightenment. Enlightenment is not just going to come one time, something
boom.
Enlightenment is beginning to develop. We are in the light of the enlightenment.
We are following that, what is called in the Western, in the world, Jacob's letter of the
enlightenment.
We are really following that light. That light is not coming from outside, it is from our inner
corner, our true nature, the Buddha nation.
That is China. China, it is one of the beautiful times. For that reason, I am saying that. That is
true.
And therefore, again, we are going through our teachings, our practices, the kind of highlights of
our own knowledges that we gain from many great masters.
So many from the books know that I am going over again. It is a kind of putting, we support light.
So it is something that we can really activate.
That is good for any time our practice Dharma and to bring more mindfulness, more alertness and
more consciousness.
That is always good. So therefore, I am doing this for all of us, for you and as well as also
myself. So we will go over this now.
Now, we are talking about the foundation or the anchor of the Dharma, or particular anchor of the
practices.
When the Buddha is teaching, how we learn Buddha teaching? By two ways. It is called Scriptural and
Practice.
Learning the Scriptural by studying and contemplating. On those meaning, what we learn from our
teachers and read the books and put that in our own intelligence, in our system, to blend it in,
make something more reasonable, more meaningful.
Why? Because Buddha teaching is teaching of the way that nature is. Buddha not proclaiming anything
what is not natural.
Excalivate things are. Excalivate things are as a relative truth. Excalivate things are in absolute
truth. Excalivate are common in union, relative, absolute truth to union. There is no difference.
That is what really Buddha pointed out. For this reason, Buddha is known as great teacher, supreme
teacher, excellent speaker.
That is what Nala Yuna appreciated. I, among all the speakers, among all the wonderful talks, you
are the supreme IP homage.
You are the supreme, you are the noble ones. Because the simple, direct, true, exactly as it is.
As we think about both subject level, object level, every aspect. Therefore, for that reason, we
investigate and lie after we start teaching.
This is also known as intellectual. Buddha himself said, "You must exam, you must investigate, you
must analyze, and then you observe. Don't think you have to believe what I said."
This is also known as lies, rules of the Buddha. Not any great teacher told, "Examine rules." Excal
ve the Buddha.
Buddha don't have anything to hide, anything to cover up, exactly simple, true, natural as it is.
How wonderful. How marvelous. How simple also. Don't know.
That's what the really great teacher. Kindness, compassion, teaching. That part is this.
So we have to, again, when we practice the study of Buddhism, as I said, the academic or the
scripture is as academic, studying and contemplating.
And what the final result of the academic and study is to practice. To meditate. Observe that not
in the brain, hover on the brain, but observe that in heart, mental with heart, and that boosts our
inner wisdom, nature.
A whole Buddhism, our old nature of the mind, or mind, is residing in the heart, not in the brain.
Brain is the office of the mind. Heart is the principal residence or place where mind is, and where
there is also Buddha nature.
Or in any of my schools of Buddhism, youthful, vast, body. They are all indestructible. Nature of
the wisdom is residing. Write it. That's what we have to develop.
This is not just going to discover. That nature is not going to discover by intellectuals. Not just
speaking. Not just verbalizing.
But we have to observe. That teaching mandates that with full of joy, full of appreciation, and
courage, and commitment, determination. All those tools that the mind offers, use those as needed,
and move forward at one second.
That is known as following the teachings of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shatramana. So
particularly when he comes to the practice, and that is this full renunciation thought. What are we
going through? It's the anchor of the practices.
It is the beginning of the ashra. If we have full renunciation, the ashras of practice are more
perfect, more nice.
As I said many times, you know. And the teachings say it is true. When we are reflecting the
British life, operating this human body, when we are reflecting the impermanent, when we are
reflecting the meaning of the cause and the effect that are inevitable, when we are reflecting the
samsara is a lot of difficulty, troubles or sufferings.
When we reflect those points, what it does immediately really makes our heart more subtle, tender,
calm, more open, more mellow, more nice. It becomes more practical.
When you practice, we should be practicing with that. More simple, donged out, and more practical,
more with common sense. That's what really it does. For that reason, many times, you neglect those
masters of the practice, the lineage, always.
If you don't reflect on these four renunciation thoughts, in each time of the practice, maybe you
are really at the beginning of our period of the practice, maybe you are in good practice, but the
middle and end is going to become scattered, our thoughts and intentions.
When we have this poor, boneless thought in the heart of the mind, it becomes a brave target, more
targeted, settling our mind, more calm and more beautiful, so that we can really fly so beautifully
on our crucial levels. That is how it is.
Therefore, I am going again, as Japji Duneung Muja told, and I am going again on these little more
details, each point. Little details, not big details, but little details, again, in the purpose and
aims to spotlight our knowledge, our understanding, that we learn from our great teachers and from
the books, so I am going through this.
That way, again, I went already to the laboratory of the practice of the life of the human body,
any permanent, and now, cause and effect are inevitable, which is actually also karma.
Outside, everything is completely on the best upon the cause and effect. Deep down, cause and
effect is as I said the other day, I mean, you know, it is known as interdependent culture.
It depends on the co-ordination. Everything is connected. Everything is dependent to each other.
There is nothing, one single object, arise by itself without any connections, without any interming
les.
It is all connected, whether it is big, whether it is small, or whatever it is, it is all connected
. Everyone is cooperating together directly, indirectly, closely, long-distancely, all is connected
and things arising, whether it is good or whether it is bad, it is all happening.
Who is the instrumental of that? According to the teaching, particularly this positive and negative
is present in our mind. Mind is instrumental, is directing these things.
In mind itself, as I said, and we all know, we all heard from teachers, and in the books, it is
emptiness, believe it or not. I mean, it is kind of amazing. Mind itself is empty, but it is doing
all these things.
It is true, we never saw mind, and I never saw my mind, really, there is nothing to see. And I am
sure, in the same case, you all too, it is not just me and you, according to the teaching, no one
saw mind as solid existence, substantially solid existence.
No one, that is how this mind, that is how this rule of every our perception, every our conception,
every aspect of our lives, who is ruling, who is ruling, it is behind the scenes, the emptiness of
our mind, that is it.
So therefore, when we talk of these things, today, again, we are talking, then according to mind
itself, we start to initiate it in our mind, then we are reflected to the external, we are
physically, verbally, then it becomes the negative action, positive action.
Even if it is initiated at the very beginning, in our space of the emptiness mind, then again, it
is, that is the dawn or the beginning of the negative action, negative emotion, such as anger,
jealous, head and throat, attachment, such as tense, grasping obsession of those, it is negative.
Even if it is not externally reflected, projected, it is negative.
What is it doing? In the individual who had that, now it has become uncomfortable.
It is just rolling, it is rumbling in the mind, it is rumbling in the brain, it is rumbling on the
channels and the nervous systems.
Then, curdling the whole handle, curdling the resist, and targeting someone, you reject, or we
ejected that, reflected, and then it is called negative action.
And when it comes out, it is like tornadoes, it depends of course, big and small, but it just comes
, it really meant to us.
How actually tornadoes started, also from the emptiness space, this emptiness space of the cloud
and the wind and maybe the weather, but there is no substantial solid existing behind of that.
We can detect those like weather forecast, weather means, the district of this element is there,
but the element is where you look carefully, where they are.
Now, there is nothing substantial solid existing further than weather means explaining, you can't
find.
Similarly, the space of the emptiness mind, projected of this city of the tornadoes in our brain or
in our mind, projected in the marvel, physical, or projected there through the senses, eyes, ears,
nose, tongues, bodies.
And they continue the kind of siblings that live with that. That's how it can get into, then it
becomes negative.
Same time, same way, the positives, when positives are suddenly from the emptiness space of the
mind. Mind, how? That is love, kindness, compassion, joy and evocation are initiated from the
emptiness mind.
According to the teaching of the greatest teacher of the Buddha, Shakti Muni, and Gaurupia Masambha
, other great masters, every great master, which is not just others, said, this is like the love,
kindness, compassion, joy, all this is the nature of the mind.
What that means is the Buddha-made nature of the Buddha, nature. Or in other words, if I say, this
love and compassion are energy of the Buddha-nature.
It irradiate the energy of the Buddha-nature. Therefore, whenever we have joy and obligation, love
and compassion, kindness, our mind is more calm, more peaceful, more happy, happier, more relaxed.
When we reflect that well-believed or the physically, it makes happy whether it is true or that we
know. This is not something the Buddha said and we believe in that, it is true. It makes happy.
Then even people will name out the peacemakers.
Peacemaker is not coming from negative emotions. Peacemaker is coming from love, kindness,
compassion, openness of mind, concerning, caring towards for all the living beings.
With that attitude, we would have luck in the action. Then truly, it is peacemakers. Or in the
Dharma, it is known as bodhisattvas. Bodhisattvas.
This is the common language. I think it is called gentle men and gentle ladies. Or ladies and
gentle. Surely there are other ladies and gentle making something different, beautiful environment.
Wherever they go, wherever they are, or the area, surely they are the beacon, light of this world
or the samsaras.
So that is all started with the positive, all started with the mind. Now with this thought, again I
talk a little bit, I am sorry, it is just gone.
So I talk a little bit about the Bodhisattvas.